---
title: "Enso dead, back to launchy?"
date: "2008-05-28"
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

It sounds like from [Jono's posting](http://humanized.com/about/) that Enso is
effectively dead, in the sense that no one is working on it full-time, let alone
getting paid for it. The main
[changes](http://code.google.com/p/enso/source/list) I've seen on the code front
look related to getting Enso to work on Mac, which is pretty ironic because Enso
was one of the few pieces of software that made my PC borderline likeable. I was
drawn to Humanized's ethos - a slick combination of Python, UI, and a vision for
how the computing world could be different. Unfortunately, their business model
wasn't forward-thinking enough. I believed in them - after all, they made a big
splash on release with Mossberg giving a good review, and the
[founder](http://azarask.in/blog/) is the son of the father of the Mac - and I
even sent some money their way. I was hoping Enso would develop into a beautiful
layer on top of Windows, hiding all the warts and bringing some coherency to the
whole experience.

Hopefully, [their vision](http://humanized.com/about/) finds its way into the
real world through Mozilla. Seems like an excellent deal for them to be able to
reach millions of users. For me, should I just go back to
[Launchy](http://www.launchy.net/) (which got a nice rewrite using Qt in 2.0,
btw), or keep using my purchased copy of Enso that I'm adapted to. Or should I
stop writing about productivity software and start producing software?:)
