---
title: "Markdown and Blogging and Dropbox, Oh My!"
date: "2012-01-11"
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

There are a bunch of new blogging services that have surfaced recently that
share quite a few similarities:

Use Markdown for the post medium Use Dropbox for syncing and delivery Boast
simplicity and ease-of publishing Emphasize clean design

I first heard of Calepin a few months ago. I liked the experience of creating
posts locally using Markdown, hitting the "Publish" button, and seeing it live
with minimal hassle. I even looked into migrating my wordpress blog to use
Calepin exclusively. There was one minor niggle1 I had with the service: there
is no way to view all (or recent) posts on one page, nor previous/next links on
posts. And no plans for that. I've always preferred to view a blog's content on
a single page and found it annoying to manually step articles post by post.

Then, in the past week or so, two new services cropped up: Skrivr and
Scriptogram. The former seems to differentiate itself with emmaculate typography
and attractive themes. The latter is eerily similar in many ways to Calepin, but
plans to support themes. Two things I liked about the newer services is that
they do display all your posts on one page.

Calepin

First kid on the block Developer has a specific vision and good design
sensibilities Premium plan in the works

I appreciate that Calepin's developer is highly-opinionated and sticks to his
guns. He's decided not to allow custom themes or CSS, and each post gets its own
page. It's clear he has a vision for his service and a plan to sustain it.

Skrivr

Beautiful themes out-of-the-box Quirky method for specifying posts Invite-only
Customizable

Skrivr sports good-looking themes and a responsive layout out of the box.
Creating a post feels kludgy; you're forced to give every post a category, and
metadata is pulled from the filename. The service is currently invite-only,
though the owners quickly sent me an invite when I asked. The themes are also
very customizable, but to a fault. I don't want to mess with templates.

Scriptogram

Just like Calepin, but: Custom CSS All posts on single page Free

When Scriptogram first came out, I ignored it because it seemed like such a rip
off of Calepin. The publish page had the same three-column layout and workflow,
so I assumed it was some disingenuous script kiddie. But it's become apparent
that this is not copycat2. In the past week, the developer has rolled out custom
domain support and a nice CSS editor. It's a bit worrisome that he plans to keep
the service free. But for now, I like it the best. It's easy to use and just
flexible enough for my needs.

Why did I start using this word? ↩

Though, I'd love to hear an explanation for why the publish screen was so
similar one day. ↩
