---
title: "Things I really like: Fujifilm X100T"
date: "2017-02-22"
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

My Fujifilm X100T delights me.

It's been 2 years since I bought the camera. That purchase was big step in my
photography hobby, having dabbled in it in years prior. It was my first grown-up
camera and the most I had ever spent on that kind of equipment. I grew up in the
school of thought that the requisite gear to take your photography to the next
level was to buy the best DSLR body and prime lens you could afford. Then, play
the lens game and begin diversifying from there.

Given that background, I struggled with whether the X100T would satisfy my
needs. A fixed lens. What if I grew tired of the one focal length? What if I
wanted to someday capture sports or landscapes? The video features are rather
primitive—what if I need to do some filming?

The answer to those questions is, "Too bad." But I found those limitations
ultimately to be liberating. There would be no lens game to be played. I would
not be taking my camera out for high-action sports or shooting a documentary. My
camera had already answered those questions with a "no," and I could focus on
what the camera _was_ capable of.

I carried this mindset into my workflow as well. My old school-of-thought
dictated that I must shoot in RAW in order to preserve all of the image data,
giving me the greatest flexibility to process the best photos. I decided to
shoot only in JPEG. This freed me from a whole category of anxieties and
questions. "Where do I store the files? Local back up and then a cloud solution?
I'll need a more powerful machine to operate Lightroom. But first, I need a
license to Lightroom."

Around this time is when Google Photos was released. Unlimited photo storage, as
long as you are shooting JPEG. My photos are synced across all my devices. Sold.
(Yes, it's free, so I'm the product being sold.)

Nowadays, my "workflow" is pretty minimal. I take pictures. I'll copy them to my
phone using the built-in WiFi (rather clunky, but usable), or pop out my SD card
and copy it on my laptop. Google Photos syncs them to the cloud. If I want to
publish something, I'll bring the photo into Darkroom on my phone. If I want to
make a print, Flag app on my phone. That's it. No post-processing, really.

That's why I enjoy using my camera. There's not much to think or worry about.
I've got no extra lenses to pack. All of the basic functions are obviously
exposed on the body. I can set every dial to Auto, and I'll get great pictures.
If I'm feeling particularly artistic, or need to adjust to my environment, those
controls are right there. Want less bokeh? Click, click, click. Subject too
blurry? Dial in the shutter speed. That's it.

So, let's go out and shoot!
